[#terminology]
=== Terminology

Unless otherwise noted, all terminology defined in this specification
is only for the purposes of this specification and none other.

image::ConfigurationOntology.png[]

[[application]]Application:: A Java program. The term _application_ is
also sometimes used adjectivally to distinguish application concerns
from <<component,component>> concerns.

[[component]]Component:: A Java class that does not declare, and hence
is not runnable via, a `static` `main` method, or a notional
collection of such classes, or a physical collection of such classes,
or a physical packaging of a collection of such
classes. <<application,Applications>> are assembled from components by
someone playing the <<application_assembler>> role.

[[configuration]]Configuration:: An externalized portion of
<<component,component>> state, or a snapshot of such a portion, that,
when imported into a <<component,component>> or
<<application,application>>, may cause it to change its behavior
without there being any corresponding change in its source code.
+
Configuration is most, but not all, of what makes up an
<<environment,environment>> and is typically that portion of an
<<environment,environment>> that is created by someone playing the
<<configuration_author>> role.
+
[sidebar]
Configuration often takes the form of textual, human-readable,
human-writable named values in a file, but need not be of this form.

[[configuration_coordinates]]Configuration Coordinates:: Notional
coordinates that partially locate a <<configuration,configuration>> in
<<configuration_space,configuration space>>.

[[configuration_loader]]Configuration Loader:: A conceptual entity
that "knows" where <<configuration,configuration>> lives within an
<<environment,environment>> and can load it into an
<<application,application>> or <<component,component>> when requested.

[[configuration_space]]Configuration Space:: The universe of all
possible <<configuration,configurations>> for all possible
<<component,components>>.
+
[sidebar]
Configuration space is a subset of <<environment_space,environment
space>>.

[[deploy]]Deploy:: To start an <<application,application>> with a
particular <<configuration,configuration>> partially comprising a
particular <<environment,environment>> for which that
<<configuration,configuration>>, and hence that
<<application,application>>, is suited. Deployments are carried out by
someone playing the <<application_deployer>> role.

[[environment]]Environment:: A location in
<<environment_space,environment space>> into which an
<<application,application>> is deployed. An environment features a
<<configuration,configuration>> and other data typically outside of
the responsibilities of the <<component_developer>> and
<<configuration_author>> roles, such as the current locale, the
machine architecture, the current time, the current working directory,
and so on.

[[environment_coordinates]]Environment Coordinates:: Notional
coordinates that partially or completely locate an
<<environment,environment>>, and hence a <<deploy,deployed>>
<<application,application>>, in <<environment_space,environment
space>>.
+
[sidebar]
Environment coordinates are the "latitude and longitude", loosely
speaking, of an <<environment,environment>>, and hence a
<<deploy,deployed>> <<application,application>>, within
<<environment_space,environment space>>.

[[environment_space]]Environment Space:: The universe of all possible
<<environment,environments>>, and hence all possible
<<configuration,configurations>>, for all possible
<<application,applications>>.

[[qualifier]]Qualifier:: An <<environment_coordinates,environment
coordinate>>, particularly one that is characterized by a name and a
textual value.
